WEBVTT Hey, and welcome back to Logik Academy Pro and Flame
for Nuke Artists.
So as I promised in the last class, this time we're going
to finally delve into the image and bring all those pieces together.
So everything you learned about the G mask trace,
but also about the diamond keyer.
And of course, the mask right from last class will now be put together.
So without much further ado, let's dive into batch.
So let's pull out an image node from the effects nodes.
Bend and connect it up to our footage.
And from the looks of it.
This doesn't look too different from any other general node
you can pull from the effects nodes been.
But as you remember, probably from the introduction of action way back
when I called this one of the three human nodes inside of Flame.
So let's dissect this one by one.
If we had a four and open up the tool.
This almost looks like the master grade from the last class.
And this is to be expected because the mask,
the grade is now applied not as a node, but as a shader
inside of this image toolset.
How does this make any sense?
Well, let's pull back a bit.
Image is based on the action toolset.
Now action is the 3D compositing environment of Flame,
where you can also apply shaders and the mask,
the grade being, a matchbox shader being one of them.
So for everything you see from now on,
always try to keep in your mind this is just action
with a little bit of different controls to suit this.
For grading tasks,
the first
thing I want to draw your attention to is the HUD up here.
So by default you always get a primary color
correction, a first selective to build on.
But there much more I think you can apply up to 48
selective color corrections inside the single node.
And then you've got a general kind
of post-processing output selection there as well.
So these three primary selective one and output
are the first ones to work on.
So if we want to give this a primary grade, we can do that.
So just select the primary
and do your color correction.
So this is lock material.
Let's switch our controls to lock
and then we can give this a very basic
first grade.
So maybe something like that.
So this
is not too different from what we did in the last class.
And if you familiarize yourself with the controls there,
then this shouldn't be too difficult.
However, now we want to apply selectively.
So to do that, just click the selective
one in the hut and you'll see our interface change.
Now you are in what you call the Selective Controls panel.
And by the way, this is where you can see the numbers of selective
that are available to you so you can jump through those.
And there are those 48 selectors I talked about.
I got my first selective selected, but I haven't told Flame
yet how I actually want to do the separation.
How do I want to make a selective to then color correct on.
We've got a couple of tools that we can use
to actually achieve this selection or separation.
Let's start by something
really, really simple, and that would be a G mask.
So with selective one selected right
click in the center of your image and choose
at the mask link.
And I'm going to go with an ellipse just to do a basic vignette
on our very first selection.
So by clicking
that and pulling that up, you're drawing up
exactly the same shape as you would in the
G mask tracer if you choose the G mask ellipse there
and using the same shortcut.
A you can also add a gradient point like that.
So that is our selectivity find.
The only thing we should probably do is inverted
because we probably want to,
bring down the,
the highlights in the outer rim area instead of the inner circle.
So I'm going to hit invert and then
how do I get to my actual grading controls?
Well, there are two possibilities for that.
The first one is automatically
Flame will put a master grade
to each and every selective that you define.
You can change that.
You can apply differentiators as well as mask.
The grade is just one of many matchbox shaders,
but by default it'll always apply a mask that great.
And for now this is what we're going to keep using.
So you just change to that tap.
And there we are back in our familiar controls.
And if I now bring down the lift,
I can bring down the brightness there
and thereby apply my vignette.
So if I go to my source image,
I see the completely uncorrected raw footage.
If I had a four, I see the result.
And with selective one selected hitting H
I can just hide this selective like so.
So I see it with or without my vignette.
The second option you've got
to switch between your selective and your actual mask.
The great is to use the single dropdown
menu here and change that to double.
So that way you will have your selective
on the left hand side of the panel
and a somewhat reduced version of the mask.
Look right on the right hand side, not in functionality.
It's all there.
So you've got your curves, you've got your tones,
you've got your primaries, but you're going to go
without the prime tone combined panel
and you'll have to do much more switching between menus.
So this is a little bit of a
drawback of this, but it is there
if you want to constantly switch
between refining your selective
and adjusting your grade, that might be an option.
There is actually a third way to switch
between the selective and the grade And actually
every component of your grade, and that is by using the schematic.
Now, this is something that you're most likely
not see in a lot of official
Autodesk documentation and also training material.
And that is because the image toolset
is also designed
to be driven by a controlled surface,
like a tangent wave or element or something like that.
And a schematic is something that is pretty inherent
to be driven by a pen and tablet and not by a huge control surface.
So I'll try to stick
to the usage of image as it is intended,
just to show you a different way on how to deal with this.
But, honestly,
I tend to go to the schematic quite a lot because I use it
for the G mask tracer.
I use it for action and I am familiar with it.
So if you hit the tilde key,
you can see our relationship diagram
build up like we would have done it in action ourselves.
But this is all built under the hood.
So this is why I'm showing this to you. Now.
I want you to see that even though you're
using different methods, this is just action under the hood.
So you've got a surface,
you apply shaders to the surface and you've got maps
driving those selections.
So from now on, you'll constantly
see me going back to the schematic
just to illustrate, to show you what is happening under the hood.
Also, this is a great failsafe mechanism.
If you get lost or if you play around with this and
you accidentally created something you don't want to
and you don't know how to delete it or how to disable it,
you can always go back to your knowledge of action
and just use those techniques so you can cut connections
like you're used to from your action schematic.
You can reconnect, you can hide elements and so on and so on.
I think you get the idea.
Let's continue by adding another selective and color.
Correct her face a bit more.
So going to the selective controls menu,
which is here.
I can now choose to add a second selective like that.
And like before that is fresh.
There's not yet any method defined on how we want to
actually separate our image
or parts of our image from the rest.
Okay.
So for this, I would like to use the diamond here.
So I'm going to go to the keyers And one thing I wanted to show you,
because this is something I constantly do Nuke,
and that is to view the individual channels.
So to do that, you're going to use almost exactly
the same hotkeys as inside of Nuke, which is.
RG and B for each individual channel inside a Flame,
you just have to use shift R for the red channel,
Shift G for the Green channel
and shift B for the blue channel.
So as you might have already expected from the plane, IGP view,
the Blue channel is our best
bet to get a proper matte extracted
or the blue range of the image.
So how do we deal with that?
Well, making sure my,
selective too is selected.
I'm actually going to activate the diamond here.
This little guy here that you already know
from the color pop like so.
So now I can go about this exactly the same way as I would
in the color warper.
I could select a preset like Cyan,
but I don't see anything.
how can I actually see my matte?
Well, for that I have to hit F8 and see
my selective matte view,
and that can then be refined from here.
What I can also do
if I hit F8 twice is actually get an overlay
of that matte onto my image, which might make things a little bit
easier.
So let's see if we can find that
a little bit more.
Could also try to pick our custom color.
But I think
the selection we had actually wasn't too bad.
If we go back to F14
and then F8 for the overlay, we catch quite a lot of that.
There are two more things I want to do.
I want to soften this up a little bit and then I want to constrain it
by an additional T mask.
So let's start by blurring this,
something like that, and then I want to apply it.
You must do this as well.
So going back to my result view,
I can either click in the image, I can also click on my heart
here, right click and add a mask link
with link, meaning that the t mask
will automatically be linked to that.
And I just picked so now I'm going to go with free
instead of Ellipse and that allows me to draw a G mask
like I would in the G mask tracer So I'm going to go with this now.
Something like that, kill that,
point up there, something like that.
So let's get back to F eight to see if our Matt works
and we'll see not what we expect.
So if we sat through this, you see the flat image,
but we don't see
our overlay combined with our diamond keyer.
Why is that?
Well, if we head back to the result view and take a look at the HUD,
you see that our correct selective is selected.
That is the selective to Diamond, but also our G mask is selected.
So we just got the view of the G mask and of itself in the viewer.
If we want to see the result
of the diamond keyer and the G mask to combined,
we need to select the selective itself
and then head over to the F8 view.
And there we get what we expect.
So now we can refine this a bit more.
Let's bring this over here.
Let's also add a gradient point
to further this up, something like that.
And then of course, if we shuttled through this clip,
we see we need to animate that matter.
We can do that manually or like with any other G mask
in action or the G mass tracer, we can, of course, check that.
So let's try that.
And I'm actually choosing to track the axis
so I could go to the schematic and choose it there.
I can also pick the tab up here
and select rotation and scale
to have two points and enter the tracker.
And then I'm just going to do
a quick track on her eyes
like, So
let's see if that sticks.
Something like that
just hit the adjust offset to bring it back into place.
And now
yeah, we could probably smoothen
out the scale and rotation in the channel.
Editor Let's quickly do that.
So going in over here,
just selecting access to rotation and scaling,
holding down shift to select both the rotation and the scaling,
and then with average selected here,
I'm going to smoothen those out.
So as a constrain matte, that should work for grading.
Okay, great.
So with that
we can finally get back to color correct this.
So going to the result View
Diamond two is selected.
I'm going to go to Master grade two.
It's really helpful that image names these all accordingly.
So G Mask two, access to master grade to
are all tied to selective two.
So of course at one point that might break,
but as much as possible image will try to keep those numbers
sensible so
to indicate which belongs to which.
And once again, if you falter, if you're not sure which axis which
you mask you are actually working
on, always go back to the schematic.
I think this is something that as a new artist
you'll probably understand.
And the easiest.
All right, master grade to select it.
And now we can adjust this skin tone.
So maybe you will try to bring it a little bit
more in on the lively side, something like that.
Lets hide that for a minute.
Yeah, I think this isn't too bad.
So the last thing I want to show you in
this class is how to properly label your individual selector.
So that's pretty easy.
Just by right clicking in here, we can rename this
vignette
like so.
So now this is properly labeled
and if we go to the second one,
you could also use the object window down here.
So if you don't want to call this diamond, which just refers to the key
instead of the actual object in the image,
you could call this face
like so.
Okay, so I'm going to close this
class out now, and in the next class we're going to continue
our exploration of the image tool, said.
And then we'll also take a look at some other means
on how to separate your image.
So we'll take a look at the machine learning inside of Flame
and also 3D areas, which could be pretty exciting.
So thank you so much for watching.
Until next time. Bye bye.
